Barstools and chip docs (#446)
ucb-bar/chipyard: docs/VLSI/Building-A-Chip.rst

.. _build-a-chip:

Building A Chip
===============

In this section, we will discuss many of the ASIC-specific transforms and methodologies within Chipyard.
For the full documentation on how to use the VLSI tool flow, see the `Hammer Documentation <https://hammer-vlsi.readthedocs.io/>`__.

Transforming the RTL
--------------------

> Building a chip requires specializing the generic verilog emitted by FIRRTL to adhere to the constraints imposed by the technology used for fabrication.

Reviewer: "Specializing the generic Verilog" sounds very weird to me...

This includes mapping Chisel memories to available technology macros such as SRAMs, mapping the input and output of your chip to connect to technology IO cells, see :ref:`Barstools`.

> In addition to these required transformations it may also be benefical to transform the RTL to make physical design easier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to these required transformations, it may also be beneficial to transform the RTL to make it more amenable to hierarchical physical design.
```

Author: Thanks.

This often includes modifying the logical hierarchy to match the physical hierarchy through grouping components together or flattening components into a single larger module.

Modifying the logical hierarchy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Something about complex chips -> needs hierarchical

Reviewer: I think a quick mention of the grouping pass would go far here. It's often the case that physical constraints imply a certain hierarchical flow is needed, which requires transforming the logical hierarchy, blah blah blah...

Author: I made a quick mention in the latest commit.
I think an example in chipyard would be good (e.g. a cluster?) but that will have to be a separate PR.

Reviewer 3: We have examples of this in our configs area. Please refer to the documentation on how to create heterogeneous setups and further modify chipyard
